_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /about/
title: "About"
author_profile: true
layout: "single"
class: wide
---
<!-- Google tag (gtag.js) -->
<script async src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/gtag/js?id=G-9NBX5KDKM0"></script>
<script>
  window.dataLayer = window.dataLayer || [];
  function gtag(){dataLayer.push(arguments);}
  gtag('js', new Date());

  gtag('config', 'G-9NBX5KDKM0');
</script>

I am a complex systems scientist trained in anthropology/archaeology and geoscience. My interests center around long-term human ecology and landscape dynamics with ongoing projects in the Mediterranean (late Pleistocene through mid-Holocene) and prior work in the American Southwest (Holocene-Archaic). I've done geoarchaeological fieldwork in Spain, Bosnia, and various locales in North America and have expertise in hunter/gatherer and early farming societies, lithic technology, and evolutionary theory, with an emphasis on human/environmental interaction, landscape dynamics, and techno-economic change. Quantitative and computational methods are critical to archaeological research, and socioecological sciences in general. They are an important focus of my research, especially computational modeling, spatial technologies (including GIS and remote sensing), data science, and visualization.

I am an advocate for open, transparent science. As Director of [CoMSES.Net](http://comses.net ) and the [Open Modeling Foundation](https://openmodelingfoundation.org), I promote open scientific computation for social and ecological sciences. I am also member of the GRASS GIS international development team and Project Steering Committee that is making cutting edge spatial technologies available to researchers and students around the world. To help in this effort, I maintain GRASS binary apps for the Macintosh OS at this web site.

Commit message:

update about page
Harmonizing with my web site and adding ASU links

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /about/
title: "About"
author_profile: true
layout: "single"
class: wide
---
<!-- Google tag (gtag.js) -->
<script async src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/gtag/js?id=G-9NBX5KDKM0"></script>
<script>
  window.dataLayer = window.dataLayer || [];
  function gtag(){dataLayer.push(arguments);}
  gtag('js', new Date());

  gtag('config', 'G-9NBX5KDKM0');
</script>

I am a complex systems scientist in the Schools of [Human Evolution & Social Change](https://shesc.asu.edu) and [Complex Adaptive Systems](https://scas.asu.edu) at [Arizona State University](https://www.asu.edu). My research interests center around long-term human ecology, landscape dynamics, and the multi-dimensional interactions between social and biophysical systems. I have long running collaborative projects in the Mediterranean (Upper Pleistocene through mid-Holocene), and have done fieldwork in Spain, Bosnia, the American Southwest, and various other locales in North America. My work spans hunter-gatherer and early farming societies, geoarchaeology, lithic technology, and evolutionary theory, with an emphasis on human/environmental interaction, landscape dynamics, and techno-economic change.

Quantitative and computational methods are critical to complex systems science, archaeological research, and socioecological sciences in general. They play an integral role my research, especially computational modeling, geospatial technologies (including GIS and remote sensing), data science, and visualization.

I am an advocate for open, transparent science. In addition to contributing to the GRASS GIS community, I serve as Director of [CoMSES.Net](http://comses.net ) and the [Open Modeling Foundation](https://openmodelingfoundation.org), promoting open scientific computation for social and ecological sciences.
